Walter Goedecke, PhD, PE
3210 Dartmouth Ave
Boulder, CO  80305-3439
Tel: 303-494-3348
E-mail: wgoedeck@dim.com

SUMMARY 
Over 15 years of experience as an electromagnetics researcher, systems engineer, instructor, and computer programmer. Strong background in electronics and electrical engineering. Knowledge of electromagnetic propagation through lossy media and space plasmas, and knowledge of communication frequency encoding and modulation techniques, with digital signal processing experience. Proven organizational skills, teaching skills, and writing proficiency. Computer skills include C /C++, UNIX, Linux, BASIC, FORTRAN, HTML experience, networking experience, assembly language, LabVIEW, MatLab, and MS Project. 

EXPERIENCE

Adjunct Professor	 (8/2004-present)
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Cheyenne Center, F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Cheyenne, Wyoming and Colorado Springs Center, Schriever Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colorado 

* Teach graduate aerospace classes in Space Applications, Earth Observation and Remote Sensing, and Space Mission and Launch Operations. 

* Won a Faculty Course Development award from the Wyoming NASA Space Grant Consortium in 2005 to develop a Global Positioning System (GPS) course for Embry-Riddle. Taught this class in 2006. 

* Won two project development awards in 2006, from the Wyoming NASA Space Grant Consortium and Embry-Riddle, to design, build, and launch a nano-satellite to demonstrate active orbital modification by including a thruster on it.  

Scientist and Engineer	 (6/2004-4/2005)
Electromagnetic Applications, Inc. 	Lakewood, Colorado
Investigated GPS multipath problems for FAA LAAS proto-system intended for auto-land feasibility, and suggested solutions. Examined signal to noise characteristics from ground and building interference. Compared code and carrier errors (CMC) from numerous GPS satellites in airport environment. Evaluated GPS antenna characteristics, such as gain patterns, phase centers, linear and polarized (RHCP) types. Ran receiver computer models to evaluate errors and scattering from rough surface and random dipole distribution models. 

Consultant	(2002-2003)
QuakeFinder, LLC 	Palo Alto, California
Wrote proposal to NASA to build and deploy ELF/ULF magnetometers along fault zones to investigate tectonic events such as earthquake magneto-seismic emissions, and possible ionospheric effects. Recommended ELF bands for a CubeSat magnetometer, and assisted in calibration for this satellite prior to launch. 

Researcher and Systems Engineer	(7/1997-5/2001)
University of California at Los Angeles, Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics. 
Designed, built, and deployed GPS-synchronized magnetometer data acquisition systems to observe global electromagnetic resonances. Planned and organized research & engineering to accomplish scientific objective of project. Designed digital and analog interfacing hardware and managed construction implementation. Programmed acquisition system, and processed signal in real-time to visually monitor. Set up LANs and networked acquisition systems to the Internet for fast data retrieval for group. Created data analysis routines in C++ and MatLab programs, also mentored groups to create additional routines. 

Consultant		(1997)
Entente, Inc. 	Boulder, Colorado
Translated a Basic program to C++ that translates the user's input language into another language. 

Instructor		(1994-1996)
Colorado School of Mines	Golden, Colorado

* Taught FORTRAN programming for two semesters, and taught AutoCAD for two semesters for the Engineering Practices Introductory Course Sequence (EPICS) program (1995-1996). 

* Taught electrical engineering lab class and managed experiments for Eng. Dept. (1994). 

Research Intern 	(10/1993-8/1997)
USGS 		Golden, Colorado
Designed & built GPS-synchronized remote magnetometer data acquisition systems for magnetospheric data, analog and digital interfacing hardware. Responsible for expanding network of research collaborators by including UCLA and NOAA Space Environment Center. Planned, organized, and coordinated with US Air Force Academy, Los Alamos National Labs, and two Eastern European research institutes, and negotiated with private land owners to deploy and host remote observatory systems to deliver data for long periods. Wrote programming software for both the various acquisition systems and subsequent data processing. Instructed groups on use of hardware and software, and analyzed data for space physics and weather conditions. 

Research Assistant	(9/1988-11/1990) 
University of Arizona	Tucson, Arizona 
Engineered and tested cross-borehole electromagnetic systems, in the field and models, for Army project. Built dipole antennas for boreholes. Tested antennas and propagated high frequencies in lossy geologic media to analyze attenuation and phase. Constructed 2200-gallon saline water tank to test radio wave propagation with model borehole antennas. Analyzed data to generate antenna patterns. 

Teaching Assistant	(1987)
Colorado School of Mines	Golden, Colorado
Assisted with geophysics field class. Organized and conducted gravity and magnetics potential field mapping, to determine basement rocks (Colorado School of Mines, 1987).

Consultant	(1987)
Ed Blincoe & Associates 	Denver, Colorado
Researched external acoustic detection of fluid levels, to monitor levels in borehole fracture tanks. Worked on mathematical propagation models of compressional and shear waves. 

Electronics Technician and Engineer	(7/1984-5/1987) 
Ophir Corporation	Lakewood, Colorado 
Designed and built proto-devices, e.g., radiometers. Designed and built model infrared hygrometer to measure water vapor in helium for nuclear power plant. Designed and built capacitive ice sensor device to measure liquid and solid components of ice, for use on aircraft. Evaluated additional projects. 

EDUCATION 

Florida Inst. of Technology 	
MS in Engineering Management & Aerospace Eng 	(In Progress)

Colorado School of Mines / UCLA	Golden, Colorado
PhD in Geophysical Engineering	(1999)

University of Arizona	Tucson, Arizona
MS in Geophysical / Electrical Engineering 	(1990)

Colorado School of Mines	Golden, Colorado
BS in Geophysical Engineering	(1987) 
Minors: electrical engineering and geology. 

CERTIFICATIONS & SPECIAL TRAINING 

* Registered Professional Engineer (PE) in the State of Colorado (Electrical Engineering). 

* OSHA Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response 40-Hour Training Program class. 

* Languages: German (advanced), Spanish, and some Russian. 

VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE & LEADERSHIP 

* Organize large annual event, now with over 600 participants, in Boulder, Colo. area (1995-2003). 

* Work on environmental and campaign issues each annual election. 

PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS 
American Geophysical Union, American Inst. of Physics 


PUBLICATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS

Publications

Le, G., P. J. Chi, W. Goedecke, C. T. Russell, A. Szabo, S. M. Petrinec, V. Angelopolous, G. D. Reeves, and F. K. Chun, Magnetosphere on May 11, 1999, the day the solar wind almost disappeared: II. Magnetic pulsations in space and on the ground, Geophysical Research Letters, 27, no. 14, 2165-2168, July 15, 2000.

Russell, C. T., P. J. Chi, V. Angelopoulos, W. Goedecke, F. K. Chun, G. Le, M. B. Moldwin, and G. Reeves, Comparison of three techniques of determining the resonant frequency of geomagnetic pulsations, J. Atmos. Solar Terr. Phys., 61, 1289-1297, 1999.

Green, A. W., E. W. Worthington, T. A. Plyasova-Bakounina*, A. Kormendi*, L. Hegymegi*, W. Goedecke* and Z. Voros*. Field line resonance studies in North America and Central Europe. Geophysical Transactions = Geofizikai Kozlemenyek = Geofizicheskiy Byulletin', 42, no. 3-4, 181-193, 1999.

Presentations

American Geophysical Union (AGU), Spring 1999
Poster presentation given in Boston, MA. Comparison of the Cross-phase Spectrograms of Ground ULF Waves and the Field Line Resonance Theory, P. J. Chi, C. T. Russell, W. Goedecke, and H. Kawano.  

International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics (IUGG), July 26, 1999
Oral presentation at the University of Birmingham, UK, Validation of the Phase Gradient Technique for Inferring Magnetospheric Resonance Frequencies, Walter Goedecke and Chris T. Russell.
	
Geomagnetic Environment Modeling Conference (GEM), June 23, 1999
Poster presentation at the summer meeting, in Snowmass, Colorado. Simultaneous Dayside Broad-Band Spectra Observed over Two Different Magnetic Latitudes in Eastern Europe, Walter Goedecke, Zoltan Voros, Alpar Kormendi, and Chris T. Russell.

American Geophysical Union (AGU), Spring 1998
Poster presentation given in Boston, MA. Initial Results from the IGPP/LANL Ground Magnetometer Array, Peter Chi, Walter Goedecke and Chris Russell.

International Union of Radio Science (URSI), January 7, 1998
Oral presentation given at the annual National Radio Science Meeting, held at the University of Colorado.  Simultaneous Measurements of Pc3-4 Pulsations on the Ground Using the Phase Gradient Technique from Magnetometer Pairs and in Space Using the POLAR Spacecraft, Walter Goedecke, Peter Chi, Jim Clemmons, and Chris Russell. 

American Geophysical Union (AGU), December 9, 1997
Poster presentation given at fall meeting held in San Francisco, California.  Comparison of Pc3-4 Pulsations Observed at Two Magnetometer Station Pairs in Colorado and Eastern Europe, Using the Phase Gradient Technique, Walter Goedecke.

