Photo descriptions: 

2)
This was once a two-room, rustic cottage (at about 5621 Arapahoe Ave, north side). In 1943 Ira Cole rebuilt it, added on, and did the rock work. Mr. Cole and his second wife, Mabel, are standing in front. 

Ira later built the "Wagon Wheel Lodge: west of Boulder. He and Mabel operated it for many years following World War II. It is now known as the "Boulder Mountain Lodge," and is a popular place. 

Among his other talents, Mr. Cole ws also a writer. 

3) 
Ira Cole and his first wife, Myra, were the parents of seven children. Myra died in 1939. 

Pictured here are two of their daughters, Rose and Alice, and a granddaughter, Ramona. 

Taken about 1944. Note the beautiful rockwork, also the date at the left (on the rock).

4) 
Once a "Home."

Ira Cole's youngest son (also Ira) at far right and some grandchildren on a skating pond he made for them. Home in background as it was in the mid 1940's. 

The small footprints of one of his granddaughters can be seen on the fireplace hearth inside the center section of the house. 

5) 
Home on the west acreage. The Coles lived there for about ten years and then moved east to the other home. This one was rented out during the "great depression: of the 1930's for $10 a month. 

Located up near the hightway, then 2 lanes (Arapahoe Avenue). 

6) 
This house was located south of the rock house, up near the highway (Arapahoe Ave). Early on it was known as the "Valley Road Mission." Ira Cole served as pastor and his first wife, Myra, assisted with her musical talent. They closed it as a church in 1929, after about nine years. 

They then remodeled the interior and lived there for many years. 

7) 
Mr. Cole working in a strawberry field north of the rock house site. Very early 20's. It was soon plowed under and became part of the vegetable farm. 

8) 
Valley Road School - 1st through 8th grade. 

It was then "School District #65," located on south side of Arapahoe Ave. just west of the golf course, across and a little east of the Boulder Dinner Theater area. 

In use from early 1900's until soon after World War II. Demolished in mid 1960's - Progress??












