
Subject:
Fw: Raytheon Interview: Walter Goedecke
From:
Jigna M Patel <Jigna.M.Patel@raytheon.com>
Date:
6/30/2015 6:55 AM
To:
walter@snowbears.org
CC:
Jigna M Patel <Jigna.M.Patel@raytheon.com>



Thank You,

Jigna Patel
HR Specialist
Office: 978-858-1771
Raytheon
50 Apple Hill Drive
Tewksbury, MA  01876

----- Forwarded by Jigna M Patel/US/Raytheon on 06/30/2015 08:55 AM -----

Dear Walter,
It is a pleasure to confirm your interview on Wednesday, July 1, 2015 at 10:30 am PST at our  Fullerton, CA facility.  When you arrive, please ask for Robert M Fries at 714-446-2605.  Please note that US Government-issued identification (i.e. drivers license, US passport, etc) is required to gain entrance to our facilities.  Security may check your belongings and/or vehicle upon arrival for security purposes

Directions are attached for (See attached file: Driving Directions.doc)(See attached file: Fullerton Map.pdf)
Please go to this web site --> http://rayjobs.com/idsconnection   for information regarding:
• Raytheon Benefits
• Submitting your Travel Expenses
• Raytheon & IDS Overviews

For assistance with your travel arrangements, please contact BCD Travel at 1-800-819-0977 , The system will ask if the call is regarding a new reservation, existing reservation, or customer service.  To reach the applicant line, respond with new reservation.  The next menu will ask the caller to choose from domestic travel, international travel, applicants, or leisure travel.  Reply with applicant and the call will be directed.  Mention you are a Raytheon IDS Applicant booking travel for an interview.  BCD’s standard hours are from 8am – 5pm EST. Please wait at least 4 hours from the time you receive this email before calling.  (However, for travel emergencies, there are standby operators available 24 hours a day)

• If limousine service is part of your travel arrangement, please note that the charges (including gratuity) are direct billed to Raytheon
• If you will be departing following your interview (i.e. your lodging was only for one night), you must check out of your hotel prior to the interview.  (Depending on your circumstances you can sometimes make arrangements to have the hotel hold your luggage in a secured area until you return, if this is more convenient.)
• Unless prior approval has been obtained from your recruiter, lodging is approved for you alone.

You will receive an email from "HireRight", who is contracted by Raytheon to administer our on-line application process. The email will provide a hyper-link to HireRight’s on-line application. Please complete the application as directed and submit prior to your interview (this will take approximately 45 minutes).  If you do not receive the HireRight e-mail within 24 hours, please contact me at the number listed below.


If you are unable to keep your appointment, in particular if it is the day of your interview, please contact the recruiter, Scott Mezquita at 978.858.9406.  We are looking forward to meeting you.

Talent Acquisition Team


Attachments:
Driving Directions.doc	25.5 KB
Fullerton Map.pdf	80.1 KB